I grew up in this congregation,
and for many years,
it felt like a loving family.
But lately I struggle
to feel the same enthusiasm.
And the elders
—I struggle to understand them too.
Traffic is bad after work,
but they probably think that I’m slacking.
They only notice their favorites,
like Thulani.
He’s got to be the slowest brother on mics.
And this couple
—every week they are on the platform,
loving all the attention.
I know this irritates Sizwe too.
I don’t know when I started feeling
this way about my congregation.
But lately I feel
so disconnected from these people.
I have been giving Bible reading assignments
since I was his age.
These are still the only assignments I get.
And with each passing month,
I find myself feeling more and more unhappy
in this congregation.
“Why, then, do you look at the straw
in your brother’s eye
“but do not notice
the rafter in your own eye?
“Or how can you say to your brother,
“‘Allow me to remove
the straw from your eye,’
“when look!
a rafter is in your own eye?
“Hypocrite!
“First remove the rafter from your own eye,
“and then you will see clearly how to remove
the straw from your brother’s eye.”
Hmm, I wonder:
‘What did Jesus mean by that?
‘How could you fit a rafter in your eye?
‘And how will you see anything else?
‘How can someone with a rafter in his eye
even try to remove a straw
from someone else’s eye?’
Reading the Bible can be funny sometimes.
Jesus actually said:
“Hypocrite!
First remove the rafter from your own eye.”
“Hypocrite!”
Why did Jesus call this man a hypocrite?
Perhaps he was so focused on the straws
—the mistakes of others—
that he did not see the bigger mistakes
—the rafter—
in himself.
Hmm, but that made me think,
‘Am I  a hypocrite?’
I want to enjoy my service.
I don’t want to be negative
or critical of my brothers.
But how do I fix it?
I prayed.
I asked Jehovah to forgive me.
I asked for humility too.
Then I went on and asked my boss
if I could leave 30 minutes early
so that I could do that Bible reading.
I was surprised when he said yes.
He even suggested
that I could leave early every meeting night!
It was like Jehovah
walked into his office before I did.
But when Brother Khumalo commended me,
even then I thought,
‘Is he being genuine?’
That’s when I realized
I had to continue
to “remove the rafter” from my eye.
I have to try to view the whole congregation
the way Jehovah views them.
I hope to enjoy the new world
with them one day.
Over the months,
by becoming more helpful and less critical,
I feel more connected to my congregation.
Applying Bible principles
helped me see the reality
that it was my  attitude
that made me unhappy,
not the mistakes of my brothers.
All this time,
the best way to change my congregation
was to change myself.